what to do before starting paid
[Music]
ads welcome back to a fresh episode of
Breaking bb.com I'm your host Sam
Dunning and if you want to join
thousands of Legends enjoying past
podcast episodes unusual SEO and B2B
marketing tips then why not check out
the daily newsletter over at breaking
bb.com and hit that newsletter tab so
joining me today I've got Megan bow
Megan is a CEO over at refin Labs we're
diving into hey dads why you should
perhaps delay starting them some
tactical Milestones that you should
consider how to nail each of those
milestones and setting yourself up for
success as a B2B company with pads Megan
welcome to the show how are we I'm doing
really good thank you Sam great intro
love the energy I'm excited to be here
and dig into the conversation today I'm
surprised I have this much energy after
watching the football Euros yesterday
and uh having a couple beers was I'm at
it but we move the podcast doesn't stop
for no one so let's yeah let's do it so
first and
foremost should B2B companies like what
why should B2B companies fire up wait to
fire up PID ads Megan I thought that was
like day one fire up paid ads and and
start start going after qualified leads
and demos and sales calls uh were we
doing it wrong yeah I mean I I feel like
people that have that perspective
believe that um it's almost like a coin
operated machine oh I'm just gonna put
some you know dollars in Google ads and
then I'm going to get you know hundreds
back it's as easy as that I just have to
put the money in and then the sales will
come out the other side and that's not
how paid advertising Works whether it's
Google ads or LinkedIn or other channel
that you're that you're working on and
so the the truth behind paid advertising
you know this comes from a CEO of a paid
advertising agency is that any business
needs to have you know a core goto
Market strategy and have a really strong
marketing foundation with just the
basics and that is a prerequisite um in
my mind before you take the leap to
invest in a paid advertising strategy
um so I do think it's you know possible
to start it too early there's lots of
other Alternatives and focusing on those
fundamentals before you layer on a paid
strategy is is the way to go got it
we're going to dive into I believe five
or so kind of fundamentals that you
should have rolling fired up and in play
before you spend your hard ear cash
perhaps your investor hardend cash on
paid media Google ads LinkedIn ads
whatever the channel may be so yeah
let's hear them let's if if we could
perhaps hear the some of the core ones
and then maybe we can dive into kind of
the finite details of each one yeah
definitely and what I'll say is there
are other forms of advertising you can
do in the early days before paid and so
I just want to kind of call out that
point and then I'll get into those five
Milestones you know a lot of Founders
and and you know sort of startups should
be for example investing in organic
social media versus paid social media
right so you see that today all over
LinkedIn or Twitter or other channels
there are ways that you can begin to
leverage these channels just through
your own profile to begin to communicate
your messages start to get feedback
there's a cost because there's a time
commitment right there's other cost
forms but it's not as expensive as paid
advertising so that's the other mindset
I encourage people to consider is how
can you accomplish a similar goal in a
way that's going to be more
cost-efficient and effective based on
the stage that you're in um so that's
another it's not sort of it's not binary
like don't do you know sort of don't do
anything related to that um but paid
advertising can be a significant
investment and making sure that you have
the right foundation in place is really
important yeah yeah yeah so it sounds
like going for more Sweat Equity
channels like you alluded to LinkedIn
organic content kind of publishing
publishing posts there opposed to kind
of waiting to to put stuff out to the
marketplace yeah and in fact doing that
organically on LinkedIn might actually
help you with these sort of five
Milestones that I believe a company
should have in place before they invest
a significant amount in paid advertising
so let me kind of break down the five
and then um and then we can kind of get
into some of the details on on each of
them sounds good number one is really
clarifying your ideal customer and your
target market seems totally basic a lot
of companies um don't actually have this
figured out who are you selling to who
is your ideal customer and what's your
total addressable market look like
number two strong brand positioning and
effective messaging um this is another
one when we kind of double click into
this one um a really clear and
compelling position and really strong
you know brand a brand strategy and a
messaging strategy is is crucial um and
that is easier said than done it is not
easy to get to a really strong place um
for that one number three a compelling
offer so you need a clear you need clear
pricing and packaging you need to have
Clarity on how when your customer
purchases that from you it's going to
drive a desired outcome fix a problem
they have um that has to be really
dialed in in and believable to your
total addressable market number four a
website that converts traffic to sales
conversations um your website is so
critical um in any paid advertising
strategy it becomes the place where all
campaigns are sending traffic to and
that website needs to be optimized for
conversion and it needs to be built with
the modern B2B buyer mind that gives
them the information that they want um
and gets them to a point where they want
to raise their hand and talk to your
sales team and then number five is Happy
paying customers and so if you just have
a great idea or you've built V1 of your
software but you don't have any
customers yet you got some work to do
before you spend money on paid
advertising get some customers um have
them tell you that it's working have
them renew have them buy more stuff from
you that sort of the ultimate validation
and and really the the Milestone that's
uh supposed to represent some semblance
of product Market fit if you will so
those are my five awesome and before we
dive into the first one is there ever an
exception to these
rules so um I mentioned that you could
do this with an organic strategy there I
would say an exception is and a lot of
people will will talk about this there
there are definitely ways to be really
strategic and deploy a really targeted
budget for some experimentation with
paid
advertising and in some cases that might
actually help you for example diagnose
if one of those five Milestones is a
challenge for you and or help test
certain hypotheses on you know for
example messaging like if you really
aren't sure what if your messaging has
landed you could run some
uh controlled experiments with a couple
of different types of messaging and
measure whether that resonated with your
audience right because you can sort of
guarantee distribution to them so I
think that there are some use cases
where it can make sense um but you need
to be really clear about what the goal
is and how much you're willing to invest
in order to get that and that there
isn't an alternative that would allow
you to do that
for you know a lesser cost um so there's
some there's some use cases there and
and maybe some others that that I
haven't haven't considered or mentioned
um but getting those five milestones in
place will ensure that when you layer on
a paid advertising strategy it will
meaningfully help you grow um whereas
before if you don't have those things in
place and you spend a bunch of money you
run you're basically gambling a little
bit in my opinion you can't you can't
really count on an outcome if you're
lacking one of those Core Business
fundamentals makes sense makes sense so
let let's jump into number one which I
believe was clarifying your target
clients or Target
customers yeah and so I think I mean
this typically starts with a hypothesis
right when you're a Founder you're
building a product a new service you
have witnessed some type of pain point
you believe you can solve it in a
different or better way than other
players in the market and you have sort
of a general sense of who your customer
is who's going to buy this thing what I
what I've seen in all of the companies
that I've been at over the course of my
career is that that hypothesis is the
right starting point but that it it is a
starting point and that once you
actually start to get paying customers
when you actually try to sell your
product and get feedback people say yes
people say no you start to get a lot
more clear and begin to Niche down a bit
on the types of customers that really
are the best fit and the right fit for
your offering um and to be open-minded
that that might evolve and change over
time as your product and software
evolves and grows but it's really an
interesting question if you pose that to
you know a CEO or a founder of a of a
new company can you specifically
describe who you're selling to and
typically what I find is it's quite
Broad and when it's not specific enough
and clear enough it makes it really
chall challenging to even put together a
solid paid advertising strategy which
requires that Clarity so that you can
tailor your messaging accordingly so um
it's really it's getting clear on that
what I what I always say is if you have
you know 20 customers 50 customers who's
your top 25% of your customer base what
do they have in common how can you use
that criteria to help develop a more
concrete definition and and have that be
the basis with which you think about how
to build your website how to build
messaging both for organic or paid
social campaigns um I'll pause
there yeah it's it's good stuff and I
think it's I I still chat to a lot of
B2B Founders be it in Tech businesses or
service businesses that like you say
perhaps haven't picked a niche or
haven't even got to the the hypothesis
stage yet so they they still of the
belief that they can sell to a massive
target market and of almost the belief
that their offer is so good that it will
serve anyone and I've been there in the
past right trying to sell our services
to almost anyone and anyone who would
have it but it it's very painful
especially as a Founder like when you
have such a broad market and an
undefined offer it it almost devalues
your work because you're trying to kind
of cast The Net so wide with your
marketing and sales activities that it's
it's almost not having a KnockOn effect
but once you realize that like you said
once you've got some data behind you and
you've got a clearly defined client
profile that has that expensive problem
you fix wants to actually solve it has
cash to invest it in the offer and and
can get value from the offer itself and
you've clearly defined like what type of
segment of business that is what
industry they fall in what company size
they fall and you have that data it's so
useful with almost everything like you
said you're messaging your website
content your ads content it just fuels
the fire really so it's um what what do
you for for folks that kind of want to
go with the hypothesis is there any is
there any kind of tips You' give to
folks that are perhaps not not not got
enough data to clearly Define thems in a
niche yeah if you really don't have very
many customers yet I think the um the
key here in my view is to spend time
with the people who you think are your
right customers and to essentially learn
through doing some primary Market
customer research on your own and so um
you know you you typically if you're a
founder of some type of you know product
or service it's usually because in some
capacity you've witnessed the problem or
the challenge right or you've you've
been your customer and you now want to
solve for that so there's usually some
initial proximity to or ability to
relate to your potential customer and
then the way that you begin to flesh
that out is having ongoing regular
conversations with those people even if
they aren't your customers yet but they
theoretically could be or or should be
another thing that I'll say too is
there's nothing wrong with having big
aspirations right you could say
eventually you know this entire segment
should have our product and that's great
for an aspiration but typically that's
not true from day one and you know
there's a lot of companies that
maybe they start selling into you know
small or medium-sized businesses but
want to get into the
Enterprise but the reality is like
enterprise software requires a lot more
sophistication and security and
complexity and
customization but it's like you're not
there yet right so where is your product
today who's the customer segment it's
going to serve today as your product
evolves so can your Target customer
profile evolve as well but but really
really being honest with yourself about
the aspiration versus the reality and
getting clear on who that segment is
today to get you to that next Revenue
Milestone right and I do think this is
something that isn't static it can
evolve and change but what is it today
and how are we going to optimize growth
for today is really what you want to get
at and do you have a checklist in terms
of what you should identify within that
Target customer IE company size sector
that kind of stuff yeah so I think
there's some like basic
firmographic you know company
information that can be helpful to
classify that can also help for example
in in targeting for a paid advertising
program so it might be company size by
number of employees or a revenue
Milestone um it could be a type of
Industry especially if you're you know
vertical SAS or something like that um
it could also be uh things related to if
they've received funding um and have
money to invest and or ambitious growth
goals to
achieve um so there's lots of you know
there's some different criteria there I
think also there's more of the
qualitative uh components that I think
are can sometimes be just as important
so I'll give an example of what I mean
by this um at refin labs for example you
know some of our firmographic criteria
Like We Only work with B2B companies we
typically like to work with companies
that are 10 million in ARR and higher we
know that if you're going to hire us
your your your ACV should be 20K per
year or higher right these are just like
these are some concrete things that are
sort of true or not true depending upon
the company that you're in on the
qualitative side though something that
you know I have on my like ICP document
is philosophically aligned with our view
of marketing with our marketing
philosophy we want to work with a
customer that believes that for example
paid social really should be treated as
an awareness Channel and not an intent
Channel we want to work with customers
that aren't optimizing for a, mqls but
really want 100 really high quality demo
requests and and I know from experience
that that philosophical alignment can
often result in whether it's there it
can be a great partnership or if it's
not it won't lead us to the outcome that
we want and you're not going to find
that piece of information in a database
or online right you have to find that
out in an actual conversation with your
prospect so I think there's benefit in
having kind of like the you know just
like the really clear criteria that you
can use uh but then also some of those
things that you really want to kind of
sus out in your Discovery conversation
when you're when you're on the phone
with your customer it's a good point
it's a good point and B2B marketers or
Revenue folks tuning in like if you've
got that data there it's it's almost a
luxury because as as a Founder these are
things that you'll have Battle Scars
From probably learning the hard way yeah
by probably selling your offerings to
clients that just aren't the great fit
like you think when when you're doing
your initial bringing your offer to
Market be a piece of TAC or or elsewise
like you've got to learn this stuff the
hard way through going through perhaps
deals that maybe weren't the best fit
but you didn't know at the time and then
realizing that perhaps your solution
wasn't best fitted to that that company
or they didn't appreciate the value or
there was too much red tape internally
all these things that you'll learn the
hard way but then you can of course
learn from it document it move on and
then realize what what companies you do
serve best over time so if those are
things and resources you can put
together it's going to save you a lot of
time pain for for all parties involved
so yeah some good points so that's
clarifying Target customer
and then we've got point two which I
think was strong band positioning and
effective messaging yeah and so um this
is like marketing 101 but this is a uh
this is really hard to to nail and I
think a lot of people can be tempted of
like uh you know we have a good enough
positioning or messaging Let's Just
Launch some paid ads to get
customers and one of the things that um
I've identified pretty consistently when
paid advertising is not working for a
company usually one of the root causes
is a lack of positioning and poort
messaging and so when I say brand
positioning or your position this is
really how are you different how are you
positioning your company your product
your service within the market of
competitors to differentiate yourself to
create a a um an affinity to to create a
recognition of why you exist and and
really your differentiated value
actually identifying that is really
challenging and then effectively like
articulating that is also challenging
and so you know there's lots of
different exercises you can go through
whether it's like Andy Raskin strategic
narrative or some of April dunford's
like positioning Frameworks those are
really good places to get started if
you're if you're feeling stuck here but
you need to really have a strong and
clear position and then your messaging
really flows from that and this
messaging is messaging that should be
part of an organic LinkedIn strategy a
paid LinkedIn strategy your website Etc
and then this is where if you're early
on and just getting started this is
where leveraging like an organic
LinkedIn strategy can be really powerful
you can you know other than spending
time you can put out content with
different positions with different
messaging and you can get some pretty
direct and immediate feedback whether
that's Landing or not based upon the
engagement you get the questions you get
um when you're having early sales
conversations you can test out different
ways of saying something whether
something's really Landing or resonating
or the way that you presented something
actually convince them to sign the cont
contract and make the purchase right so
again this is not easy to do but the
goal here is being really intentional
with using some type of framework or
some type of process to get to your your
what you believe is your best
positioning statement and then not being
afraid to test messaging this is where
you can use paid ads sometimes um if you
have the money um but there are other
ways to also test via organic Etc to to
sort of achieve that same outcome yeah
yeah it's a good point it is tough like
you say and it does from experience help
a lot if you've already got that Target
client target market well carved out
because then you can look to
differentiate within that Niche and you
understand your customers or your Target
customers a lot better right um and then
you can you can even look to create
points of differentation based upon your
Target customers pain points or their
motivations or their jobs to be done or
even taking a stance for what you hate
about other players maybe competitors in
your industry like there's so many
different routes I mean it could be a
podcast episode in itself we had pep
Lear who you probably know from Winter
on the show a while back winter is
awesome it's a great service to test
your website messaging yeah highly
recommend it for sure for sure where
where he shared with us about kind of
starting in a really small sub sector of
your industry trying to win there with a
differentation rather than trying to go
again out in a massive Marketplace pick
the pick the small sub segment where
your competitors are basically
neglecting so maybe they're neglecting I
don't know a very small industry or
sector whatever is go after that first
win in that sector and then eventually
BR Branch out but uh yeah plenty of tips
within that episode for anyone wants to
skip back to that one but yeah some some
great points it's not easy to do but cut
certainly can conducting regular
customer research and understanding what
they what they care about and What Makes
You Different is a is a big one for
sure cool so I think number three we've
got compelling
offer yeah so this is something that b
Toc companies are typically much
stronger at than B2B companies um and it
and you know just put yourself in buying
anything that you would just buy for
yourself right it's like there's a
product or service there's a very clear
price and then usually you really
understand like why you're what you're
getting for the price what the benefit
is going to be to you um what's
interesting in B2B is if you go I would
say like one out of every two websites
you go to and when you go to the pricing
page there's not actually going to be
pricing it's going to be a form that
says contact sales or it depends um you
know or you will you maybe you do go to
a pricing page and there's like way too
many options and you're kind of like
confused like okay there's like six
different packages and it's you know
from you know $1,000 to $20,000 I don't
really understand the difference and so
what's challenging for B2B companies is
and this again this is not an easy thing
to solve for but there's either a total
lack of transparency on what the the
offer is which in my view is like price
what you get and sort of value promise
desired outcome that's intended to be
delivered um and usually so sometimes
companies have it and just do a poor job
of communicating it on their website
more often than not though I find that
it isn't really fully thought out in a
way that uh that it should be and sort
of the excuse is is well it depends and
it depends on how many licenses they're
going to have or how much this or how
much that and I you know I get that to a
degree and there absolutely can be a
range or variability within pricing
especially for more complex you know
enterprise software products um but I
but I do think really nailing and
landing on that offer definition is
crucial in order for you to be
successful in acquiring customers and
being able to communicate that in a
digital way again whether it's on your
website or through different paid or
organic campaigns
yeah it's there's there's a lot we could
talk about when it comes to office um
something that come to mind straight
away is what do you feel would separate
a great offer from something that's
quite
mediocre well like um winter we just
talking about pep Winter's uh he's his
website is great and his offer is super
clear it's like pay this pay this money
and within 48 Hours you will get
feedback from your Target customers on
your messaging the pricing is accessible
the value is provided basically
immediately um it's pretty clear what's
going to happen and what you're going to
get um and so I think that's a great
example of a really clearly articulated
offer that's
valuable um and my understanding is he
Winter's doing great and it seems to be
working for him so I think that's like a
great example of how to think about that
yeah yeah yeah and do you think like B2B
companies in general should start small
I won main offer and then look to
reiterate that and maybe do smaller
versions to get folks in into their
ecosystem and drive kind of sign ups or
sales from from as a spin-off I suppose
yeah and I think it's an evolution right
I think most companies um that have been
really successful typically had a really
clear segment and had an offer for that
segment and then you know as you see
these companies grow a natural evolution
is to you know build an offer portfolio
for multiple different customer segments
but it's really predicated on the fact
that kind of just like as you were
describing with your conversation with
pep like let's focus on this Niche let's
dominate that particular Niche let's get
all the customers there and then let's
expand to the next one starting small
and expanding over time thoughtfully I
would pick that approach over starting
really wide and trying to build
something for everyone where you end up
in a position where you're essentially
falling short and I think are typically
in a in a state of
mediocrity um that said you know to grow
often you do need to you know build out
different new products and extended
offerings and you know expand into new
segments so it's not saying to never do
this it's just doing it at the right
time at the once you've hit the right
milestones and at the right
stage I think Clarity is such an
important key word there so like like
you said like Winter's offering is is
Crystal Clear it's allows you to to
message test for your website and as
soon as you land on the homepage you you
know exactly what it does you understand
who it's for you can hit the pricing
page and then you can either get started
or not
um so I think there's a lot lot of
lessons that that people could take away
from that just by not trying to do
almost not trying to do too much at once
focusing in on what that main what that
main service or offer or of feature that
you want to kind of double down on who
is it for what does it solve how does it
help and then how can folks then
investigate how much it costs what's
entailed and all that good stuff once
they understand it so that's that's cool
so this should be a fun one a website to
convert all that hard earned traffic
into sales calls or demos or whatever
that cool to action
is yeah and like I think um this is so
basic but it's so interesting how so
many websites I think have room to
improve and so what I tell people on
this one is put yourself in your
customer shoes and when you go to your
website I would I think that every
potential customer really has four top
questions that they want to answer when
they go to a company's website so number
one they're like is this the right like
am I in the right category is is for the
Sol for the problem I have the solution
that I'm looking for is this is this is
this correct for me so there's sort of
this like H top order high level like am
I in the right ballpark
of whether this company can help me
solve my problem or not the secondary
question then is okay if I validate that
yes that's true is this the right vendor
is this the right solution for me I want
to answer that question right and
whether it's this one or whether it's a
different vendor offering something
similar solving the same problem the
next is will I be successful if I if I
choose this vendor and I Implement their
software their service whatever it is is
it going to work for
me has it worked for people like me
right that's why social proof can be
really important and then the fourth
question is am I going to derive my
desired outcome am I going to derive
whatever economic
benefit whatever whatever desired
outcome that I'm looking for um and how
I'm how am I going to know that I was
successful in that these are these are
sort of like the evaluation questions
that any of your potential customers is
going to go through when they're in a
sales conversation with you too but
that's starts with your website so you
should be architecting your website with
those core questions in mind and making
it really easy for people to consume
that
information uh very intuitively on your
website um and then have a really clear
conversion path where when they're ready
after their own research and
self-education that it's super easy to
speak with with someone at your company
as quickly as possible especially if
they're
interested it's like if I had to distill
it down like that's what you should be
optimizing for yeah yeah yeah some some
solid points and I think like you say
there's so many mistakes that BB Tech
and service companies make when it comes
to their website some of them you
alluded to earlier whether it's hiding
pricing or forcing leads at all costs so
rather than going for kind of booked
calls they might try to download some
kind of lead magnet be a guide or sign
out for a webinar or forcing a popup on
you or that kind of stuff or another one
we often see is is neglecting customer
research which kind of encompasses
everything you've discussed so far Megan
and really understanding kind of what do
our Target clients actually care about
learning seeing doing understanding and
taking action upon when they land on a a
website in our sector because we find
that so many sites just built on
guesswork or maybe what the exact team
think looks cool or sounds cool and then
as a result prospects land on your
website but don't really fully grasp
what you do what issues it's going to
solve or what job it's going to help
them do and as a result get get
frustrated and end up bouncing off to to
a competitor that simply gives them a
clearer more enjoyable
experience so uh yeah all good points I
don't know if there's
much you encourage folks to do when it
comes to that research kind of side of
things when with their website or any
any recommendations you have there I
mean I think the first is um you know
auditing your current site against kind
of those four questions that I laid out
and really identifying if you can
honestly say that you're achieving those
and if not identifying the set of
changes that you should make to uh to
address those that would really be the
the basic from there there's ongoing
optimization um but it's most people
build their websites um through the lens
of the company how can I make us look
good how can I make it look really slick
kind of what like what you were saying
and I think build through the lens of
your customer and what they're trying to
achieve um and then don't forget that
your website is essentially your digital
store and it should be designed
for driving purchases right in a B2B
context that that conversion could look
like requesting a sales meeting right
maybe they're not buying something right
on on your website which is fine but you
want to optimize for that trans that
conversion right yeah yeah yeah and I
think what a lot of B2B folks forget is
that your website can be harming you
even if you don't know about it so like
a common thing we hear is that my
website doesn't matter because all our
deals come from outbound sales or events
or referrals so no one checks our
website and I was like if you're getting
recommended by Word of Mouth the first
thing they'll do is check your website
yes and if they can't tickle these boxes
like what you do how much it costs proof
of results Etc then you're missing out
on leads that you never knew were going
to come your way because they're not
getting that information they want to
see before they're ready to book a cool
or book a demo so you're losing Revenue
that you don't actually know
about but yeah probably say a good
resource for that side of things is for
me was building a story brand by Donald
Miller just talks about making your
website super clear and positioning your
customer as the hero as opposed to your
business and your business is the
guide so good stuff all good stuff um
fifth final last but not least happy
paid
customers for starting out yeah and this
is where you know I kind of mentioned
when I'm talking with a potential
customer to work with refin Labs I
always get a sense of where where they
are in their revenue journey and most of
the customers we work with are at 10
million ARR or higher so they have a
good amount of customers already right
they've learned a lot of the things that
we've talked about so far even if
there's room for improvement across all
of those
Milestones they have they have gotten it
to a point where they're A10 Million
Dollar business so they they've done a
good job so far and so
um this is really meant to to represent
that you should not necess I don't think
you should I would not spend money on
paid ads if I have no customers or if I
only have 10 customers it's just too
early in your journey to really figure
that out and so um what this fifth
Milestone is really essentially meant to
represent is when you have some
semblance of product Market fit via the
number of customers or some type of
Revenue milestone
then a paid advertising strategy becomes
a really important growth lever if
you've achieved all those things you're
you know above 10 million in
ARR um you absolutely should make an
investment in paid because that's going
to be how you get to 20 million and 50
million then 100 million right like
there is the right time and if um and if
implemented correctly with the right
strategy and the right execution it can
be a primary growth lover for your
business once you've once you've hit
those
Milestones let's pretend we were a B2B
SAS and we were doing 10 million AR and
we we'd hit this
checklist what what would be like the
route that you'd say we should take in
terms of kind of choosing channels be
paid be Google paid search or LinkedIn
ads or paid review sites or is a typical
flow that seems to work well yeah so I
think the the the strategy to consider
again is putting yourselves in in sort
of the B2B buyer shoes and um when you
think about your channel mix it's really
important to understand how are BB
buyers using these channels and your
strategy should be appropriately
tailored based on that so let's talk a
little let's talk about the difference
between like Google search paid search
or paid social so like Google ads or
LinkedIn ads when you're thinking about
paid search Google ads this is what I
would call an an intent Channel people
are going to Google when they all when
they're in Market to buy something right
they're searching for this type of
software pricing or comparisons between
X and Y they they know they have a
problem they're in Market to buy they're
actively looking for a solution you want
to you want to capture that demand right
we want to identify who those buyers are
we want to bring them to the website we
want to get them into our sales funnel
this is the you know one two three% of
your Market that wants to buy today and
we want those buyers so search can be a
really powerful channel to redirect that
demand to your solution to your website
right um the common mistake that we see
typically on search is that people spend
way too much than they need to on this
particular platform with this desire to
try to You Know cover all key wordss and
and everything from high intent to low
intent
searches and Google has built a
extremely successful business on
everybody
advertising and so the the the key for
search and your strategy there should be
how are you implementing a high intent
demand capture strategy
that really identifies the right budget
level to capture as much of that demand
as possible without spending any more
than that to begin to get into
diminishing returns and and and and you
really want to avoid having a poor
return on that channel investment so
most customers we work with when we get
started with them we're actually usually
lowering their search budget and
optimizing it to drive better results um
but that's your that's your intent
Channel paid social is
different you when people are on
LinkedIn most people are not actively
looking for your product today but
people spend hours and hours and hours
on social media and it is a way that
people learn about new products and
services but you can't deploy the same
messaging strategy for example that you
would on Google search on LinkedIn
LinkedIn is an awareness channel the
goal is you want to think about how are
we building campaigns that are driving
brand awareness category
awareness uh talking about your product
talking about use cases it's a medium
it's a medium to longer term play to
educate the rest of your Market that's
not actively looking today but might be
tomorrow or next week or next month and
when they are they're familiar with you
and they'll come straight to your
website or maybe pass through Google a
Google branded search to get there and
so what happens is a lot of time people
will treat LinkedIn as an intent Channel
they'll try to get you know they'll run
leaden campaigns for try to get demo
requests right off of LinkedIn and
that's just not going to work that's not
how that channel is designed and so you
want to take a very different approach
to that awareness
Channel when you think about your media
mix it really comes back to your
audience
who's your audience who's your ideal
customer where do they spend their time
maybe maybe a majority of them are on
Reddit or
Twitter um or maybe they are very
engaged with industry specific
Publications or events um so your
channel mix will vary based but but it's
rooted in in where your audience
is nice and I suppose the the benefit of
doing these these five steps around kind
of clarifying A Target customer building
out your positioning your offers
building out your website is is that
you're going to all of this will help
influence the copy the messaging that
then go Within These ads and you'll have
an idea of what's likely to to resonate
with those Target prospects with those
Target clients and all that is going to
kind of fuel that messaging whether it
is an awareness ad on social whe it's
more bottom of the funnel kind of trying
to attract someone that's already
solution aware and searching directly
for the on Google or or somewhere in
between you'll have an idea of kind of
what you should be putting together and
what your target clients actually care
about seeing at that stage yeah
absolutely all of these Milestones help
make your paid
strategy much stronger and more likely
to be successful you know your ideal
customer you know who to Target your
positioning and messaging you know how
you're going to communicate through
those campaigns your website we're gonna
all the traffic's going to your website
it's now optimized to convert that
traffic effectively right happy
customers social proof um so it all it's
all
related um but if you think about it in
that way and do your best to try to
sequence things
appropriately uh paid can be successful
I've talked to a lot of people that I
tried paid ads and it didn't work so I'm
not going to do that it was too early or
they treated an awareness Channel like
an intent channel right so there's a lot
of people that will say paid advertising
doesn't work but it's typically again
you can map that back to one of these
root causes that we've been
discussing yeah a lot I mean a lot of
these a lot of these lessons apply to
most marketing or ad channels in general
right building any business yeah
foundational right and we we've heard
similar things for SEO doesn't work or
other channels don't work but then it
all comes back to knowing your customer
and knowing their habits knowing like
you said where they hang out on how they
actually get their trusted information
do they even use Google search or do
they go in person or do they ask their
community on slack groups or whatever
because if they're not using the channel
you're trying to push down their neck
why the hell are you spending cash on it
so yeah lot lot of those are really good
piece of advice so with that Megan I
want to thank you very much for coming
on and sharing wisdom all things paid
ads or not paid ads in this case and
please do share more about how our
audience can learn more from yourself or
the best way to get in touch yeah uh you
can find me on LinkedIn um I post
uh once in a while on all things B2B
marketing or leadership or some personal
development stuff and then check out
refin labs.com um for learning a little
bit more about our B2B demand gen agency
thanks for having me Sam fun
conversation you're very welcome we'll
put all of those links in the show notes
below thank you once again Megan as
always if you enjoyed the episode why
not check out the accompanying
newsletter over at breaking
bb.com and with that want to thank you
for tuning in we'll catch you on the
next next one for more no BS action will
be Tob marketing tips to grow your
business and grow your Revenue see you
soon
[Music]